# Development and testing

## Local Installation

To run CKAN and develop and/or test extensions locally, one needs to set up development environment as the following:  

1. Set up virtual environment:
```commandline
sudo mkdir -p /etc/ckan/default/  # or other directory of choice
sudo chown `whoami` /etc/ckan/default
python3 -m venv /etc/ckan/default
source /etc/ckan/default/bin/activate
pip install setuptools
pip install --upgrade pip
```
Note, virtual enviromnent should stay activated during the whole installation process.

2. Install CKAN as a package into virtual environment: 
```commandline
pip install -e 'git+https://github.com/ckan/ckan.git@ckan-2.10.1#egg=ckan[requirements]'
# or for development purposes:
pip install -e 'git+https://github.com/ckan/ckan.git@ckan-2.10.1#egg=ckan[requirements,dev]'
```

Installation of dependencies may fail due to some known or other compatibility issues, below is an example of troubleshooting.

One of the known issues is `psycopg2` building. If installation of `psycopg2` fails, go to CKAN requirements.txt 
now cloned and located at `<venv directory>/src/ckan/requirements.txt`, change `psycopg2==2.9.7` => `psycopg2-binary==2.9.9`,
rerun installation of the dependencies and install CKAN itself separately:

```commandline
pip install -r <venv directory>/src/ckan/requirements.txt
pip install -r <venv directory>/src/ckan/dev-requirements.txt
pip install -e 'git+https://github.com/ckan/ckan.git@ckan-2.10.1#egg=ckan'
```

Another case of dependencies incompatibility occurring for CKAN v2.9.10 is `PyYAML`. 
In requirements.txt it may be set as `pyyaml==5.4.1` or `pyyaml==6.0.1`, if it causes the following error in the runtime
`TypeError: load() missing 1 required positional argument: ‘Loader'`, it should be downgraded to `pyyaml==5.3.1`.

3. Install required extensions

Each extension should be installed as a package as described in [README for regular installation](README.md#installation) or [development installation](README.md#developer-installation).
Alternatively an extension can be cloned first to a desired location and then installed to the virtual environment from file, e.g.:
```commandline
pip install -e file:///<path to local extension repo>/ckan-fairdatapoint#egg=ckanext-fairdatapoint
```
Then install dependencies:
```commandline
pip install -r <path to local extension repo>/requirements.txt
pip install -r <path to local extension repo>/dev-requirements.txt
```

## Testing

Testing strategy for a plugin would depend on plugin functionality. 
CKAN provides a number of helper functions allowing to generate dummy data in the database or clean the database afterwards.
Please review [official documentation](https://docs.ckan.org/en/2.10/extensions/testing-extensions.html) for detailed info.

To set up testing of a plugin make sure the following settings are configured correctly:

1. Make sure `pytest-ckan` is installed to the virtual environment. Normally this dependency should be listed in 
`dev-requirements.txt` of a plugin and therefore got installed. If you do not see it in `pip list` output run ```pip install pytest-ckan```.
2. Each plugin has an autogenerated `test.ini` file. Make sure it points to `test-core.ini` file of CKAN installation, e.g.:
```
[app:main]
use = config:/etc/ckan/default/src/ckan/test-core.ini
```
3. Modify `test-core.ini` so configuration is correct. Most likely you need to modify `sqlalchemy.url` parameter so it contains
correct connection information:
```sqlalchemy.url = postgresql://<user>:<password>@localhost/<db_name>```
If testing of your plugin requires writing to the database it is recommended to set up a separate test instance of postgres database.

### Running tests

Tests can be run via simple ```pytest --ckan-ini=test.ini``` command or an extended one with desired options.
The following example is to run tests with coverage:

```commandline
pytest --ckan-ini=test.ini --disable-warnings ./ckanext/fairdatapoint --cov ./ckanext/fairdatapoint
```
